Pulp 3.0 Release Notes
======================

3.0.0rc2
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for rc 2 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0rc1...3.0.0rc2>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

Default port changes happened in the `Ansible Installer for Pulp <https://github.com/pulp/
ansible-pulp>`_ and pulpcore was updated to match with `this PR <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/
pull/75>`_. Existing installs are unaffected. This was done to avoid conflicts that would prevent
Pulp from starting by default in many environments; the previous ports (8000 & 8080) are commonly
used by management webGUIs, development webservers, etc.

Publications are now Master/Detail which causes any Publication URL endpoint to change. To give an
example from `pulp_file <https://github.com/pulp/pulp_file>`_ see the URL changes made
`here <https://github.com/pulp/pulp_file/pull/205/files#diff-88b99bb28683bd5b7e3a204826ead112R200>`_
as an example. See plugin docs compatible with 3.0.0rc2 for more details.

Distributions are now Master/Detail which causes the Distribution URL endpoint to change. To give an
example from `pulp_file <https://github.com/pulp/pulp_file>`_ see the URL changes made
`in this PR <https://github.com/pulp/pulp_file/pull/219/files>`_ as an example. See plugin docs
compatible with 3.0.0rc2 for more details.

The semantics of :term:`Remote` attributes ``ssl_ca_certificate``, ``ssl_client_certificate``, and
``ssl_client_key`` changed even though the field names didn't. Now these assets are saved directly
in the database instead of on the filesystem, and they are prevented from being read back out to
users after being set for security reasons. This was done with `these changes <https://github.com/
pulp/pulpcore/pull/99/>`_.

3.0.0rc1
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for rc 1 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b23...3.0.0rc1>`_.

3.0.0b23
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 23 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b22...3.0.0b23>`_.

3.0.0b22
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 22 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b21...3.0.0b22>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

* `Rename pulp_app label to core _ <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/pull/12>`_
* `Use UUID primary keys <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/pull/22>`_
* `Adding support for mariadb/mysql <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/pull/21>`_
* `Problem: pulp-manager is not needed <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/pull/27>`_
* `Removing the job_id field from tasks <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/pull/30>`_
* `Problem: 'distributions' related name overlaps with a plugin field <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/pull/33>`_

3.0.0b21
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 21 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b20...3.0.0b21>`_.

3.0.0b20
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 20 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b19...3.0.0b20>`_.

3.0.0b19
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 19 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b18...3.0.0b19>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

* `MySQL doesn't support text fields as indexes <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3817>`_


3.0.0b18
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 18 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b17...3.0.0b18>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

* `Prepend pulpcore Content model fields with _ <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3798>`_
* `Rename connection_limit to download_concurrency <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3808>`_
* `Prepend type for master/detail models with a plugin app label <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3801>`_
* `Checking in migrations <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3810>`_

3.0.0b17
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 17 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b16...3.0.0b17>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

* `Remove 'notes' from Pulp <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3783>`_
* `Adds the content app to pulpcore.content <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3779>`_
* `Adds 'policy' to Remote <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3738>`_
* `Create a new Task field job_id to store rq job ids <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3800>`_
* `API Changes <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3774>`_

3.0.0b16
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 16 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b15...3.0.0b16>`_.

3.0.0b15
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 15 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b14...3.0.0b15>`_.

3.0.0b14
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 14 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b13...3.0.0b14>`_.


3.0.0b13
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 13 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b12...3.0.0b13>`_.

3.0.0b12
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 12 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b11...3.0.0b12>`_.

3.0.0b11
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 11 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b10...3.0.0b11>`_.

3.0.0b10
========

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 10 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b9...3.0.0b10>`_.

3.0.0b9
=======

`Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 9 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b8...3.0.0b9>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

* `Problem: Pulp can't be configured using environment variables <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3663>`_
* `Problem: pulpcore-common is not used outside of pulpcore <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3662>`_
* `Reduction of information in response to operation postponed <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3631>`_

3.0.0b8
=======

* `Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 8 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b7...3.0.0b8>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

* `Dropped support for Python 3.5 <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3637>`_
* `Id field no longer returned by REST API <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3630>`_

3.0.0b7
=======

* `Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 7 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b6...3.0.0b7>`_.

3.0.0b6
=======

* `Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 6 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b5...3.0.0b6>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

* `Use querysets for add/remove_content methods <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3548>`_
* `Switch to using integer IDs instead of UUIDs <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pull/3549>`_

3.0.0b5
=======

* `Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 5 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b4...3.0.0b5>`_.

3.0.0b4
=======

* `Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 4 <https://github.com/pulp/pulpcore/compare/3.0.0b3...3.0.0b4>`_.

3.0.0b3
=======

* `Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 3 <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=label%3A3.0+is%3Aclosed+merged%3A2018-05-02T17%3A23%3A00-06%3A00..2018-05-16T17%3A30%3A00-06%3A00+>`_.

Breaking Changes
----------------

* Tasking system switching from Celery+RabbitMQ to RQ+Redis. This breaking change impacts both
  plugin writers and users. See
  `the blog post about this change and how to update <https://pulpproject.org/2018/05/08/pulp3-moving-to-rq/>`_.

3.0.0b2
=======

* `Comprehensive list of changes and bugfixes for beta 2 <https://github.com/pulp/pulp/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=label%3A3.0+is%3Aclosed+merged%3A2018-04-25T12%3A30%3A00-06%3A00..2018-05-02T17%3A23%3A00-06%3A00+>`_


Breaking Changes
----------------

* Default database changed from sqlite to postgres. See
  `why <https://www.redhat.com/archives/pulp-dev/2018-April/msg00204.html>`_


3.0.0b1
=======

* Pulp3 beta1 is released!
* See `blog post <https://pulpproject.org/2018/04/25/beta-release/>`_ for details
